Release v1.6.0 (#4756)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: changelog/generated/v1.6.0.md

## v1.6.0

### Additions

- For Golang-based operators, added the `declarative.go/v1` plugin which customizes initialized projects with patterns from [kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder-declarative-pattern](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder-declarative-pattern). (e.g `operator-sdk create api --plugins=go/v3,declarative`). ([#4731](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4731))
- Added `kustomize.common/v1` plugin which scaffolds the a commonly used project base that leverages `kustomize`. ([#4730](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4730))

> - (ansible/v1,helm/v1) Add componentConfig option. For further information check [here](https://master.book.kubebuilder.io/component-config-tutorial/tutorial.html). ([#4701](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4701))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (ansible/v1, helm/v1) Added the option to configure the manager with a [component config](https://master.book.kubebuilder.io/component-config-tutorial/tutorial.html). ([#4701](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4701))
```

> - (ansible/v1,helm/v1) Add rules for leader election. ([#4701](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4701))

Reviewer 2: Nit, since this sounded confusing. I think this reflects the change
```suggestion
- (ansible/v1,helm/v1) Added rules for leader election resources in `leader_election_role.yaml`. ([#4701](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4701))
```

> - (ansible/v1,helm/v1) Add rules for leader election. ([#4701](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4701))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (ansible/v1, helm/v1) Add rules for leader election. ([#4701](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4701))
```

- Added [`alpha config-gen`](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/tree/master/pkg/cli/alpha/config-gen), a kustomize plugin to specialize configuration for kubebuilder-style projects. This feature is *alpha* and subject to breaking changes. ([#4670](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4670))
- (helm/v1, ansible/v1) Added Makefile `help` target. ([#4660](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4660))

> - ansible/v1, helm/v1) Added `securityContext`'s to the manager's Deployment to disallow running as root user. ([#4655](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4655))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (ansible/v1, helm/v1) Added `securityContext`'s to the manager's Deployment to disallow running as root user. ([#4655](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4655))
```

- (go/v2, go/v3, ansible/v1, helm/v1) Added the `opm` and `catalog-build` Makefile targets to download [`opm`](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-registry/blob/v1.15.1/docs/design/opm-tooling.md) and build operator catalogs either from scratch or an existing catalog. ([#4406](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4406))
- Added new optional flags `--delete-all`, `--delete-crds` and `--delete-operator-groups` to the cleanup command. ([#4619](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4619))
- Added `--service-account` to `run bundle` and `run bundle-upgrade` to bind registry objects to a non-default service account. ([#4694](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4694))
- Added `--pull-secret-name` to `run bundle` and `run bundle-upgrade` to configure the registry Pod with an in-cluster docker config Secret to pull bundle images from private registries. ([#4694](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4694))

> - (ansible/v1, helm/v1) Create and bind to a non-default service account ([kubebuilder#2070](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/pull/2070)). ([#4653](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4653))

Reviewer 2: Nit:
```suggestion
- (ansible/v1, helm/v1) Create and bind controller-manager to a non-default service account ([kubebuilder#2070](https://github.com/kubernetes-sigs/kubebuilder/pull/2070)). ([#4653](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4653))
```

### Changes

> - Bumped ansible and ansible-base in ansible-operator-base and ansible-operator images to 2.10.7 for a security fix. ([#4728](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4728))

Reviewer: This got reverted
```suggestion
```

- (helm/v1) Explicitly set `--health-probe-bind-address` in the manager's auth proxy patch. ([#4654](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4654))
- (ansible/v1) Explicitly set `--health-probe-bind-address` in the manager's auth proxy patch. ([#4654](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4654))
- (go/v2, go/v3, ansible/v1, helm/v1) Changed `BUNDLE_IMG` and added `IMAGE_TAG_BASE` Makefile variables to allow one line bundle and catalog image builds. ([#4406](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4406))
- For Ansible-based operators, collections as main dependencies for the operator installed with ansible-galaxy are pinned to specific versions to prevent hard to track bugs. ([#4529](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4529))
- Update community Kubernetes Ansible collection to version 1.1.1. ([#4594](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4594))
- Bumped urllib3 in ansible-operator-base and ansible-operator images to 1.26.4 for a security fix. ([#4723](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4723))

> - For Ansible-based operators, Python package installation in the Docker image is delegated to a pipenv managed Pipfile and Pipfile.lock, pinning both the main installed packages and their subdependencies. This prevents installing conflicting (sub)dependencies. ([#4494](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4494))

Reviewer: #4494 was reverted and re-committed in #4543
```suggestion
- For Ansible-based operators, Python package installation in the Docker image is delegated to a pipenv managed Pipfile and Pipfile.lock, pinning both the main installed packages and their subdependencies. This prevents installing conflicting (sub)dependencies. ([#4543](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4543))
```

> - For Ansible-based operators, the Python following packages were updated: `openshift` was updated to 0.11.2, `ansible-runner` was updated to 1.4.6. ([#4494](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4494))

Reviewer: #4494 was reverted and re-committed in #4543
```suggestion
- For Ansible-based operators, the Python following packages were updated: `openshift` was updated to 0.11.2, `ansible-runner` was updated to 1.4.6. ([#4543](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4543))
```

### Deprecations

- (ansible/v1, helm/v1) The flags `--enable-leader-election` and `--metrics-addr` were deprecated in favor of `--leader-elect` and `--metrics-bind-address`, respectively, to follow upstream conventions. ([#4654](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4654))

### Bug Fixes

> - (golang/v3) Not scaffold the specific webhooks config manifests by default. ([#4701](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4701))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- (golang/v3) Create webhook manifests in `config/` on running `create webhook`, not `init`. ([#4701](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4701))
```

- (manifests/v2) Added a `config/manifests` kustomize patch to remove the cert-manager volume and volumeMount from manifests destined for `generate <bundle|packagemanifests>`. ([#4623](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4623))

> - For Helm-based operators, fixes handling of `kind: List` whereby the  operator fails when trying to set watch on the object. The fix now sets the watch on the objects of the list instead. ([#4682](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4682))

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- For Helm-based operators, fixed handling of `kind: List` whereby the  operator fails when trying to set watch on the object. The fix now sets the watch on the objects of the list instead. ([#4682](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4682))
```

> - For Helm-based operators, fixes handling of `kind: List` whereby the  operator fails when trying to set watch on the object. The fix now sets the watch on the objects of the list instead. ([#4682](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4682))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- For Helm-based operators, fixed handling of `kind: List` whereby the  operator fails when trying to set watch on the object. Watches are created for objects in the list instead. ([#4682](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4682))
```

- (go/v2, go/v3, ansible/v1, helm/v1) Fixed the Prometheus `ServiceMonitor` metrics endpoint, which was not configured to be scraped correctly. ([#4680](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4680))

> - Mark the input variables from custom resources as unsafe by default in Ansible operators. ([#4566](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4566))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- In Ansible-based operators, mark the input variables from custom resources as unsafe by default. ([#4566](https://github.com/operator-framework/operator-sdk/pull/4566))
```
